# Deep-learning-approach-of-detecting-Malaria-through-images
Deep learning for Malaria detection through images.
Malaria remains a major burden on global health. According to a World Health Organization (WHO) (2022) estimate, roughly 200 million cases are recorded worldwide and more than 400,000 deaths per year. Besides biomedical research and political efforts, modern information technology is playing a key role in many attempts at fighting the disease. One of the barriers toward a successful mortality reduction has been inadequate malaria diagnosis. To improve diagnosis, image analysis software and Deep Learning methods have been used to quantify parasitaemia in microscopic blood slides (Vijayalakshmi and Rajesh, 2019).
IBM Cloud Education (2020) Deep Learning seeks to emulate the human brain, while it falls well short of its capabilities, allowing algorithms to cluster data and generate extremely accurate predictions. Support by, LeCun, Bengio and Hinton (2015) Deep Learning uses the backpropagation technique to show how a machine should adjust its internal parameters that are used to calculate the representation in each layer from the representation in the previous layer, revealing detailed structure in enormous data sets. Deep convolutional networks have revolutionised image, video, voice, and audio processing, while recurrent nets have shed light on sequential data like text and speech.
The aim of this project is to build a deep learning algorithm that will help analyse, detect, classify, and predict malaria image cells between infected and uninfected with best performance rate. This will help in screening of malaria sickness using a microscope to diagnose and distinguish the blood into infected or uninfected.
